# **CA4022 Assignment 2**

Analysis of user generated content posted online can give us huge insights into the behaviour of users around the world, for this reason, we chose to carry out analysis on a dataset of over 1.6 million tweets spanning a three month period. The data, pre-labelled as positive or negative by a sentiment analysis classifier, was cleaned in Apache Pig as Pig Latin is a useful scripting language for handling and manipulating large amounts of data. Analysis was performed in both  Apache Spark & Pig. We examined tweet sentiment for days of the week in Pig, extracted the top positive and negative words by ratio in PySpark, and used SparkML to build Naive Bayes & Logistic Regression models that could classify unseen tweets as positive or negative.

After searching online for datasets large enough for Big Data analysis, we found ours on Kaggle at https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/kazanova/sentiment140. The original dataset contained 6 columns [Target(0=negative, 4=positive), ID(tweet id), Date(date, time and time zone), Flag(unused), User(tweet username), Text(tweet content)] and was too large to be opened in Excel, so we used Pig to get a look at our data. After inspecting counts of 0s and 4s, we saw a 50/50 split of positive and negative tweets in the data, so we took this into account for the results of our future analysis as real world tweets may not have a perfect balance of positives and negatives. The Date of tweets ranged over a 9 day period accounting to Kaggle, however after inspection we saw that they spanned a 3 month period in 2009, so there was a large enough sample to draw comparisons across days of the week.

This repo contains all code used as well as any outputs from Apache Pig and Spark.